weekly quizzes
4 homeworks
in class inperson assessment

projects with 5 members
syllabus quiz is 1 point

Machine learning is the process of turning data into actionable knowledge for task support and decision making.

labelling data is difficult task and takes most of the ML dev life cycle. garbage info will give garbage output (gigo).

part 1 : basic maths
part 2 : unsupervised learning - for data exploration. EDA - exploratory data analysis
part 3 : supervised learning - used for predictive analysis

first we do unsupervised learning to understand the data and then we can use it for supervised learning to predict cat or dog etc.

Math notations : 

Xnxd = X is a matrix. n is the number of rows, and d is the number of columns

n is the number of data points, and d is the dimensions or number of features or attributes. 
Label = target value

Ynx1 = is the target value, where n is the number of data points so you will have that many labels and only 1 column coz there is nothing else just the answer ex : cat or dog.

unsupervised learning is when we only have access to X and not to Y, so what we do is we try to explore the data and put all the similar data points in one bucket, in this case we might have all the cat datapoints in one bucket and all the dog datapoints in the other, but yeah we dont know that they are cat or dog since we dont have access to y.

supervised learning is when we have access to both data and labels. so with the previous data we have we train our model and then use that model to predict the label of new data points.

unsupervised learning - clustering analysis, dimension reduction, kernel density estimation
supervised learning - tree based models, linear classification/ regression models, neural networks

