we talked about how pinhole cameras work

focal length, center of the camera, image plane, virtual image, pinhole.

accidental cameras where windows act as a pinhole and project outside world inside a dark room

when we take a picture -> from 3d to 2d we loose lot of details like size and angles.

vanishing points : where parallel lines in real life, seem to converge in a picture.

given x,y,z how do we calculate u' and v', that is the coordinates of the image. (formulas in ppt)

a lot of math that i have to understand .............. and after that

we talked about box filter and how to apply it, what it does? we observed that it blurs out the image.

what is aliasing? (doubt)


- To limit the amount of light rays that hit the film, we put a hole or a barrier in front of the film with a small hole, this is called the apperture. 
- The image is upside down.
-  pinhole camera
	- c is the center of the camera, and focal length is the distance between the film and the apperture.
- What is lost when converting from 3d to 2d
	- Length and area are not preserved. because things that are farther away in 3d appear smaller in 2d.
	- Angles are also not preserved. Straight lines are still straight after projection but the angles might be lost, lines that are parallel in 3d will look like converging in 2d. In a cameral like fish eye even the straight lines are not preserved.
	- we call this converging lines as Vanishing point.
-  in a pinhole camera setup the formula for u- = -x*(f/z) and v- = -y*(f/z)
-  focal lenght and field of view are inversly related to each other.
-  when reconstructing 3d from 2d the major issue is identifying the scaling, rotation and orientation of the camera.
- 




